Kirk: SPACE:
THE FINAL FRONTIER.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO BOLDLY GO
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 4978.5.
WE ARE APPROACHING
THE ARCADIAN STAR SYSTEM
ON A MISSION
TO LOCATE AN OLD FRIEND.
DO YOU THINK HARRY MUDD
IS DOWN THERE, SPOCK?
THE PROBABILITY
OF HIS PRESENCE ON MOTHERLODE
IS 81%, PLUS OR MINUS .53.
WHY CAN'T YOU JUST SAY,
"MUDD'S PROBABLY THERE"?
I JUST DID, DOCTOR.
APPROACHING PARKING ORBIT,
CAPTAIN.
VERY WELL, MR. AREX.
SPOCK, LET'S SEE HOW CLOSE
YOUR PERCENTAGE IS.
Mudd: NOW, YOU'RE ALL
HEAVY METAL MINERS,
SHREWD AND INTELLIGENT.
SO YOU CAN APPRECIATE
THE INCREDIBLE VALUE
I'M OFFERING.
WITH THIS MAGICAL LIQUID,
NO PERSON OF THE OPPOSITE SEX
CAN RESIST YOU.
IT MATTERS NOT
WHETHER YOU ARE YOUNG, OLD,
FAT, UGLY OR REPUGNANT.
[ROARING]
[CROWD PROTESTING]
NOTHING PERSONAL,
GENTLE BEINGS.
PROOF, HUMAN.
PROOF? BEHOLD.
HARRY, DARLING,
I WAS LONELY FOR YOU.
BEHOLD.
I PLACED A SINGLE DROP OF THIS
MIRACLE SUBSTANCE ON MESELF,
THEN SIMPLY TOUCHED
THIS YOUNG LADY.
PLEASE, DARLING,
COME BACK TO THE SHIP WITH ME.
HOW MUCH?
THREE HUNDRED CREDITS,
OR THE...
THREE HUNDRED?
A BARGAIN, SIR.
TRUE LOVE
IS WORTH ANY PRICE.
CAPTAIN KIRK.
AND THE INELUCTABLE
MR. SPOCK.
WELCOME TO MOTHERLODE,
GENTLEMEN.
INTERESTED IN PURCHASING
A LITTLE LOVE?
WE'RE INTERESTED
IN YOU, HARRY.
FOR FRAUD, ILLEGAL DRUG
MANUFACTURE AND SWINDLING.
AS I SAID,
WELCOME TO MOTHERLODE,
A CHARMING PLANET
WHICH DOES NOT RECOGNIZE
FEDERATION LAW.
SO YOU TWO
CAN KEEP OUT OF THIS.
ALL RIGHT, MUDD.
YOU'VE GOT A DEAL.
ARE YOU AWARE THAT HARRY MUDD
IS TRICKING YOU
VIA AN ILLUSION?
WHAT?
[CROWD CLAMORING]
THE SO-CALLED "GIRL"
IS A RIGELIAN HYPNOID,
PROJECTING A SIMPLE ILLUSION.
[CROWD CONTINUES CLAMORING]
Mudd: NOW, FRIENDS.
WE CAN'T ARREST YOU, HARRY.
BUT YOU CAN GIVE YOURSELF UP.
NO.
THIEF.
I SURRENDER MYSELF
WITH FREE WILL.
MERCY OF THE LAW.
[EXCLAIMS]
THAT WAS
A MICHING TRICK, KIRK.
YOU'VE COST ME ME SHIP,
EVERYTHING I OWN.
EVEN THE LOVE CRYSTALS.
I MAY JUST SUE YOU.
FINE.
I'LL SEE YOU IN COURT, HARRY.
[GROANS]
A MINOR BRUISE, CAPTAIN.
HE'LL LIVE.
I THOUGHT WE LEFT YOU
ON THE ROBOT PLANET, HARRY,
PERMANENTLY.
NEVER UNDERESTIMATE THE SPIRIT
OF HARCOURT FENTON MUDD.
I, UH, BORROWED A VEHICLE.
STOLE A SPACESHIP.
AND LEFT TO FIND HAVEN
ON ILYRA VI.
A CHARMING PLANET,
AN INNOCENT AND FRIENDLY
POPULACE.
TO WHOM YOU SOLD
THE STARFLEET SPACE ACADEMY.
HARRY...
A FRAUD.
BUT SOLD FOR ENOUGH CREDITS
TO GET TO SIRIUS IX.
WHERE I DISCOVERED
A BOON TO HUMANOID LIFE,
A MIRACLE LOVE POTION.
WHICH YOU SOLD
TO A THOUSAND INHABITANTS,
WHO IMMEDIATELY BECAME ILL
FROM USING IT.
I HADN'T COUNTED ON
THEIR UNUSUAL BIOCHEMISTRY.
SO, I DID
THE LOGICAL THING.
I LEFT IN HASTE.
AND CAME HERE
TO SWINDLE HONEST MINERS.
Mudd: THE LOVE POTION WORKS,
CAPTAIN.
IF YOU'LL ALLOW ME
TO PROCURE SOME
FROM MY SHIP...
[SWITCH CLICKS]
[ELECTRONIC HUMMING]
PREPARE THE ARREST REPORT,
MR. SPOCK.
Spock: I SHALL REQUIRE
A MEDICAL REPORT
ON THE PRISONER, MISS CHAPEL.
OF COURSE, MR. SPOCK.
I THINK YOU DESERVE
CONGRATULATIONS
FOR TRAPPING HIM SO CLEVERLY.
Spock: YOU EXAGGERATE, NURSE.
KINDLY SEE
THAT YOUR MEDICAL SUMMARY
IS MORE PRECISE.
YOUR MR. SPOCK IS REALLY
A VERY ATTRACTIVE
I-INTELLIGENCE.
AN EFFICIENT OFFICER, YES.
BUT A TRIFLE LACKING
IN THE, UH, WARMER EMOTIONS.
NOW, YOU, NURSE.
YOU HAVE A WONDERFUL GIFT
TO HEAL THE WOUNDED,
A FANTASTIC TOUCH.
A WOMANLY, FEMININE QUALITY.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
AND I SHOULD LIKE TO,
WELL, THANK YOU.
WHAT IS IT?
MY LOVE POTION.
NOT ILLUSION, NOT TRICKERY,
DEAR NURSE CHAPEL.
INSIDE THIS CRYSTAL
LIES THE POWER
TO CREATE LOVE.
UH, NO. NO, I'VE HEARD
OF YOUR POTIONS BEFORE.
I DON'T BELIEVE YOU.
THINK ABOUT IT, DARLIN'.
MR. SPOCK IN LOVE WITH YOU.
[SNICKERING]
[BEEPING]
AN UNCHARTED STAR SYSTEM
AHEAD, CAPTAIN.
BINARY SUN
WITH A CLASS-M PLANET.
THAT'S RARE ENOUGH
TO WARRANT INVESTIGATION.
AGREED. TAKE US INTO ORBIT,
LIEUTENANT AREX.
IT'S REALLY SO SIMPLE,
MY DEAR.
YOU RUB THE LIQUID
ON YOURSELF,
THEN TOUCH ANOTHER PERSON.
AND IT CREATES LOVE
IN THAT PERSON?
[SCOFFS]
MUDD, THAT IS TOTALLY ABSURD.
NO. IT IS INFALLIBLE.
ONE TOUCH EVOKES FRIENDSHIP
BETWEEN MEN OR WOMEN.
BUT BETWEEN WOMAN AND MAN,
LOVE.
GUARANTEED.
YOU'RE NOT SIMPLY
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.
YOU ARE A SCIENTIST.
I URGE YOU TO TAKE
THIS LOVE CRYSTAL
AS MY GIFT OF GRATITUDE
TO YOU.
TAKE IT,
DEAR NURSE CHAPEL,
AND CONDUCT
YOUR OWN EXPERIMENT.
NOT THAT I BELIEVE YOU, BUT...
WELL, I SUPPOSE
I COULD ANALYZE IT.
OF COURSE.
Arex: PARKING ORBIT STABLE.
WEAPONS SYSTEMS
ON DEFENSIVE STANDBY.
NO EVIDENCE
OF INTELLIGENT LIFE.
ATMOSPHERE AT SURFACE,
800 MILLIBARS, BREATHABLE.
GRAVITY 1.2.
TEMPERATURE HOT,
BUT WITHIN CLASS-M LIMITS.
I'LL LET YOU KNOW
THE RESULTS OF MY ANALYSIS.
LABORATORY TESTS
WOULD DESTROY IT, MY DEAR.
WHY NOT TEST IT
THE WAY IT'S MEANT TO BE USED?
NO, I, UH...
AH, DARLIN', THINK.
IF IT DOES
WHAT I SAY IT DOES,
SPOCK WILL BE YOURS FOREVER,
MY DEAR.
I JUST BREAK THE CAPSULE
AND RUB IT ON MY SKIN?
AND THEN TOUCH HIM.
[GASPS]
WHAT IS IT?
A TEMPORARY EFFECT
AS THE LIQUID IS ABSORBED.
IT'LL PASS.
I, UH, FEEL BETTER.
DIDN'T I TELL YOU?
YOU SHOULD...
YOU SHOULD BE IN THE BRIG,
HARRY.
OH, RIGHT YOU ARE, DARLIN'.
[ELECTRONIC HUMMING]
WHY DON'T YOU GO FIND SPOCK?
CAN'T WASTE ANY TIME,
YOU KNOW.
YES, I'LL DO THAT.
YES, NURSE?
I BROUGHT THE MEDICAL SUMMARY
FOR THE ARREST REPORT,
MR. SPOCK.
OH, SORRY, SIR.
ARE YOU INJURED,
MISS CHAPEL?
NO. NO, I--I'M-- I'M FINE.
A-ARE YOU, UH,
FEELING ALL RIGHT?
PERFECTLY NORMAL.
I WILL APPEND YOUR SUMMARY
TO THE REPORT.
WAS THERE SOMETHING ELSE,
MISS CHAPEL?
WOULDN'T YOU LIKE ME TO, UM,
WELL--WELL, STAY?
HELP YOU?
THAT WOULD BE ILLOGICAL,
MISS CHAPEL.
YES.
YES. IT'D BE STUPID.
HARRY MUDD, YOU SWINDLING...
OH, NO.
Mudd: HARRY MUDD,
TRIUMPHANT AGAIN.
AND APPENDED HERETO
IS A MEDICAL SUMMARY
BY NURSE CHRISTINE CHAPEL.
AH!
NURSE CHAPEL'S SWEET SUMMARY.
DEAR, LOVELY CHRISTINE.
I'VE COME TO COLLECT
ON YOUR GUARANTEE, MR. MUDD.
CAPTAIN.
UM, DOCTOR.
I WISH TO REPORT A, UM,
A NUMBER OF VERY STRANGE, UM,
EMOTIONS.
-WHAT?
-Kirk: WHAT?
YOU'RE IMPLYING THE POTION WAS
NOT COMPLETELY SUCCESSFUL?
[CHUCKLING] OH, NO, IT WAS.
I MADE A COMPLETE FOOL
OF MYSELF.
BUT YOU KNOW
HOW COLD VULCANS ARE.
PERHAPS IT TAKES
A BIT MORE TIME
FOR SPOCK TO...
YOU'RE THE SAME FRAUD
YOU'VE ALWAYS BEEN, HARRY.
I DON'T KNOW HOW
I COULD HAVE BELIEVED YOU.
WELL, LET'S DISCUSS IT
RATIONALLY, MY DEAR,
LET'S NOT BE HASTY.
DON'T PANIC, HARRY.
THIS PHASER IS SET ON STUN,
NOT KILL.
ACTIVATE THE INTERCOM.
NOW, WAIT A MINUTE,
UH, PERHAPS THAT PARTICULAR
CRYSTAL WAS DEFECTIVE.
HERE. TRY ANOTHER.
I ASSURE YOU.
STOP IT!
[ALARM BLARING]
OH, SORRY, CHRISTINE,
BUT I SHALL REQUIRE
A TEMPORARY HOSTAGE.
INTERNAL SECURITY, CAPTAIN.
Kirk: PUT IT ON-SCREEN.
Arex: SHUTTLECRAFT BAY.
MUDD.
AND HE HAS CHRISTINE.
SHE'S IN DANGER.
MY LOVE.
[WHISTLING]
Kirk: HE'S GOING PLANET SIDE.
NO. NOT WITH MY CHRISTINE.
RELAX, DARLIN'.
I'LL SET YOU DOWN
SOMEWHERE SAFE,
AND THEN I'LL BE OFF
DISCREETLY.
WE MUST GO AFTER THEM,
CAPTAIN.
I'LL LEAD A LANDING PARTY.
SPOCK, YOU'RE OBVIOUSLY
NOT YOURSELF.
MAYBE SOME REST.
CAPTAIN, I INSIST UPON GOING.
CHRISTINE.
I CAN'T STAND THE THOUGHT
OF ANY DANGER TO HER,
TO THE WOMAN I LOVE.
LOVE?
SPOCK?
YES.
I WANT TO PROTECT HER,
HOLD HER IN MY ARMS.
THEN I'LL TRANSPORT DOWN
WITH YOU.
GOOD.
JIM, IS THAT WISE,
IN HIS CONDITION?
TRY AND STOP HIM.
IT'S BETTER IF I GO WITH HIM.
SPOCK? IN LOVE?
I CAN'T IMAGINE.
[M'RESS SNIFFING]
[SIGHS DEEPLY]
LOVE.
[RAPID BEEPING]
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
HARRY MUDD HAS ESCAPED
FROM THE ENTERPRISE,
TAKING HEAD NURSE CHAPEL WITH
HIM, APPARENTLY AS A HOSTAGE.
MEANWHILE, MR. SPOCK
IS ACTING VERY STRANGE.
COME ON. HURRY.
IF HE'S HARMED ONE HAIR
ON HER PRETTY HEAD...
JIM, THE SEARCH PARTY FOUND THIS
IN THE SHUTTLECRAFT BAY.
ONE OF MUDD'S LOVE CRYSTALS.
McCoy: CAPTAIN,
A NUMBER OF THESE WERE BROKEN
AGAINST THE SHIP'S
AIR SYSTEM GRILLE.
LUCKY FOR US THEY DON'T WORK.
ARE WE SURE, JIM?
A NUMBER OF THE CREW ARE ACTING
AS STRANGE AS SPOCK.
PLEASE, CAPTAIN.
CHECK IT OUT, BONES.
SEND ME AN IMMEDIATE REPORT.
[BEEPING]
M'Ress: MUDD HAS LANDED
ON THE PLANET SURFACE.
COORDINATES RELAYED
TO TRANSPORTER ROOM 4.
AND THE CAPTAIN'S
IN TRANSPORTS ABOUT IT
WITH OUR EVER-LOVING
MR. SPOCK.
[CHUCKLING]
[ M'RESS CHUCKLES]
YOU'RE FUNNY
AND VERY ATTRACTIVE
FOR A HUMAN.
THEY'LL FIND YOU SOON ENOUGH,
ME LITTLE POPPET.
YOU'LL BE SAFE,
AND I'LL BE LONG GONE.
GONE WHERE?
THE PLANET'S A DESERT.
THERE'S ALWAYS A MARKET
FOR AN INGENIOUS MAN.
ONCE, I RECALL, ON OMEGA CYGNI,
I TURNED A HANDSOME PROFIT
SELLING THE NATIVES
THEIR OWN OCEANS.
Chapel: WELL, WE HAVEN'T SEEN
ANY TRACES OF INTELLIGENT LIFE.
OF ANY LIFE.
Mudd: THEN YOU CAN RELAX.
THERE'S NO DANGER, EH?
[MUDD LAUGHS]
WE'LL GET YOU SET UP
TOP CLASS.
DON'T BOTHER
TO THANK ME.
WELL, I HADN'T PLANNED ON IT.
[AREX HUMMING CHEERFUL TUNE]
[M'RESS PURRING]
BY THE WAY,
ANYBODY KEEPING A TRACE
ON THE CAPTAIN AND MR. SPOCK?
SURE, AREX.
THANKS, JIM.
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE
A FRIEND LIKE YOU.
STRANGE. THAT'S THE WAY
I FEEL ABOUT YOU, TOO.
MY DEAR FRIEND, SPOCK.
COME, LET'S GO GET
MUDD AND CHRISTINE.
[RUMBLING]
[ROARING]
DARLING, ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
[STAMMERING] DARLING?
KIRK, GET US OUT OF HERE!
TRANSPORTER ROOM,
EMERGENCY BEAM-UP NOW.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
THEY'RE NOT RESPONDING.
[ROARING]
DON'T WORRY.
YOU'LL BE SAFE, DARLING.
OH, YES, SPOCK.
HOW--HOW WONDERFUL.
THEY'RE COMING CLOSER!
[ROARING]
EMERGENCY BEAM-UP.
ENTERPRISE, COME IN.
NO RESPONSE.
SPOCK, CAN'T YOU TAKE
YOUR HANDS OFF HER?
THAT'S MY AFFAIR.
Chapel: CAPTAIN, PLEASE.
I THINK WE SHOULD
GET A FEW THINGS STRAIGHT.
JIM...
NO, CAPTAIN.
WE'RE BOTH REACTING
TO THE DRUG.
THE LOVE POTION.
IT WORKED?
YES, WE HAVE TO CONTROL
OUR EMOTIONAL REACTIONS.
IT WORKED.
AND I WAS SELLING
THOSE CRYSTALS
TO LUMP-HEADED MINERS
FOR A MISERABLE 300 CREDITS.
[MUDD EXCLAIMS GREEDILY]
DID I EVER TELL YOU
ABOUT THE TIME
I SAVED CAPTAIN KIRK'S LIFE?
OR SPOCK'S?
AND MY DEAR FRIEND SCOTTY.
AND THAT PRETTY LITTLE
LIEUTENANT UHURA.
I'VE SAVED JUST ABOUT
EVERYBODY ON THIS HERE SHIP.
IF THE ENTERPRISE HAD A HEART,
I'D SAVE HER, TOO.
NOW, LET'S TALK ABOUT
YOUR HEART, MY DEAR.
HOW LONG DOES THE EFFECT
OF THE POTION LAST, HARRY?
I... I DON'T KNOW.
NOT LONG, ACCORDING TO
THE CREATURE I SWINDLED...
I PURCHASED
THE CRYSTALS FROM.
LOOK!
[ROARING]
KEEP TRYING TO CONTACT
THE ENTERPRISE.
MAYBE WE CAN DISTRACT THEM.
THAT IS
AN OUTSTANDINGLY STUPID IDEA.
[EXCLAIMS]
I'M SORRY. THE DRUG.
I SIMPLY DOUBT
THAT WE CAN APPEAL
TO THEIR BETTER NATURE.
IF THEY HAVE ONE.
HARRY, DO YOU HAVE
ANY OF THE CRYSTALS LEFT?
UH, TWO.
NO! THEY'RE WORTH A FORTUNE.
NO.
MY FRIENDS, DEAR CHRISTINE,
FOR YOU, FOR ALL OF US.
[CREATURES ROARING]
OH, I'VE GOT A HANGOVER
TO SHAME ALL PREVIOUS
HANGOVERS.
AND I DID NOT TOUCH
A DROP OF SCOTCH.
NOT SO LOUD, YOU FOOL.
YEAH.
WELL, ALL OF A SUDDEN,
I DON'T LIKE YOU MUCH EITHER.
Chapel: COME IN, ENTERPRISE.
[PANTING] EMERGENCY BEAM-UP.
REPEAT, EMERGENCY.
ENTERPRISE HERE.
I MADE CONTACT.
GREAT.
I HOPE WE LAST LONG ENOUGH
TO BE BEAMED UP.
[ROARING]
PHASERS READY. I'LL NEED HELP.
[CREATURES ROARING]
[CRASHING]
[ROARING]
AND THEN, ON OPHIUCUS VI,
I CONNED TWO MINERS
OUT OF A YEAR'S SUPPLY
OF DILITHIUM CRYSTALS
WITH FAKE
FEDERATION VOUCHERS.
[CHUCKLES]
MAY I HELP YOU RECORD
HIS CONFESSION, NURSE?
YOU?
YOU'D BE THE LAST PERSON
I'D CHOOSE.
A FEW MOMENTS OF LOVE,
PAID FOR
WITH SEVERAL HOURS OF HATRED.
YOUR POTION
IS SCARCELY A BARGAIN, HARRY.
AH, WELL, SPOCK, SO FEW THINGS
IN THIS UNIVERSE ARE PERFECT.
[SIGHS]
THINK I'LL GET REHABILITATION
THERAPY AGAIN?
I CAN GUARANTEE IT.
WELL, THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
I JUST HATE TO LEAVE YOU ALL.
ALL MY LOVED ONES.
[MUDD CHUCKLES SINISTERLY]